# June 12
&#x2611; Examine `test_adapt.cpp` for understanding of API.

&#x2610; Write my own code to use the DEF parser. 

- &#x2610; Play around with what comes out!


It may be best to use OpenRoad for LEF/DEF reading. And anything I learn about OpenRoad project may be useful in the future!

It would also be super cool if I eventually integrated AIEplace into OpenRoad.

So, for the rest of today I am reading up on OpenRoad, and trying some tutorials: `https://openroad-flow-scripts.readthedocs.io/en/latest/tutorials/FlowTutorial.html`



# June 13
Today I got OpenROAD working with a local install (Though I am still installing Qt stuff for gui). In OpenROAD, there are tcl scripts for load_design which uses .odb (open database?) files as inputs to tools.

For my purposes of LEF/DEF and bookshelf IO, I think the Replace repository is my best bet, and that is where I will start tomorrow!

# June 14

I have RePlace built successfully. I faced some issues with prerequisites because in the `standalone` branch, the file for `install_ubuntu18.sh` was not included (but it is in the master branch). Here is the line to install all prereq's:
`sudo apt-get install -y libx11-dev libboost-dev libcurl4 cmake swig flex libtool zlib1g-dev tcl-dev tk-dev libjpeg-dev`

I am now examining the RePlace code, with the goal of using the lef/def for benchmarks. I may also look into using TCL commands.

Honestly though, I feel like sifting through other people's projects is a futile effort. The (lack of) documention makes it nearly impossible to figure out how it works, what is going on, or how to modify it. I almost want to just start with a barebones lef/def reader...

I also am starting to "take notes" of cool coding techniques using aieplace.h to hold code snippets.

# June 15

I've begun piecing together my own parser. I'm taking pieces from DREAMplace code as needed, trying to build it up myself. This is the only way I think I can actually understand the code!

First, I've been figuring out virtual functions. In `PlaceDB.h` class, many virtual functions are used (inheriting from DefDataBase, LefDataBase, etc). If any of these virtual functions are not defined, then my class extention `AIEplace::DataBase` is considered an abstract class and cannot be instantiated!
I fixed this by copying all of these virtual functions into `database.h` and then defining them all in `database.cpp` as empty functions. This means it is no longer an abstract class and can be used! However, I believe all of these "callback" functions are how the design data is retrieved and added to my own data structures, so I will need to actually implement these callbacks.

What is a "callback function"?
It is a function that is called from another function, commonly used in libraries to be more generic and makes the user of the library define the callback functions. For example, `add_def_net()` is a callback function that I must define for what happens when a net is read from a DEF file.

And just like that, I have a rudimentary parser! I took only a minimal amount of code from the DREAMplace repos, and now I am able to parse data from LEF and DEF! It may not seem like much, but it is good progress for me! 



Don't forget to push!
